Realms of Cælum Official Manual



Table of Contents

1. Introduction
2. Controls
3. Basic Mechanics
4. Terrain and Structures
5. Mining
6. Coming Soon
7. Coming Soon
8. Coming Soon
9. Coming Soon
10. Staff





1. Introduction

Realms of Cælum is an upcoming Indie game that will mainly feature a Fantasy theme with Sandbox elements.


Statistics:

Language: Python*
Engine: Panda3D*
Platform(s): Everything
Release Date: May 24th, 2013**
Theme: Fantasy/Sandbox
Created by: Refer to "10. Staff"
Distributed by: Elusivehawk, LLC.***


*Probably not subject to change.
**Definitely subject to change; roughly the 1 year anniversary of when this game was originally conceptualized.
***Not an actual company, yet.


2. Controls

These are the controls for Realms of Cælum.

Remember: Nothing is set in stone yet. Also, controls will be adjustable.

Forward: W
Left: A
Backwards: S
Right: D
Inventory: E
Jump: Space
Attack: Left Click
Interact: Right Click
Chat/Single Player Console: Enter
Game Menu: Esc.


3. Basic Mechanics

The following is a list of basic mechanics.

Health: The most important feature. It keeps you alive and can be used for certain spells.

Stamina: Allows you to do stuff, including fight, craft, sprint and manage crops.

Mana: Basically stamina for Mages.

Levelling: Rewrite coming Soon™.

Inventory: Information coming Soon™.

Combat equation(s): Rewrite coming Soon™

Other information: Coming soon, please refer to "Concepts.txt" for a list of purely WIP ideas.


4. Races

When the Player first starts up a new world, there will be 5 Races to choose from. Once a Race has been chosen, it can only be changed through certain NPCs.

Starting Races include:

Etkai (Water-based)
Qoqq (Earth-based)
Twaši (Fire-based)
Davlë (Air-based)
Kyndæ (Adaptable)

Note: The Kyndæ (singular Kynda) are the most human-like race and our attempt to have a sort of “human” in the mix.

More are coming Soon™.


5. Terrain and Structures

Terrain generation will mainly consist of a diamond-square algorithm which will then go through the coding equivalent of being rocket-strapped onto a String-based input system, as well as sliders for those who want X instead of Y.

As for whether terrain will be infinite or not, terrain will be finite, but wrap around, allowing for an Earth-like world.

Structures (Most of which will be optional) include:

Weather
Volcanoes
Forests
Mountain Ranges
Rivers, Lakes, Oceans
Tundra
Castles
Floating Castles
Caves
Plains

And more coming soon as features are discussed.


6. Mining

The plans for mining are still unfinished, however, the basic nutshell of it is:

Mining isn't required early on.

Mining will be required for higher end equipment.

You'll be able to find crystals.

Moreover, mining is not the primary focus of the game. This game is meant to be malleable, which means you can change the ground, but it's not all you do.

List of Ores*:

Copper
Tin
Iron
Coal
"Runestone**"
Gold
Silver
Gems (Amethyst, Emerald, Diamond***, Ruby, Sapphire, Topaz)
Sodium
Lead
Sulphur
Potassium
Onyx
Zinc

List of Alloys*:

Bronze
Brass


*Some of these are inspired by other games. ¡DON'T SUE US!
[Note from Newt: This world and all if its components are entirely fictional. Why not just make stuff up?]

**Name is definitely not official.

***Note: NO. DIAMOND. TOOLS!!


(7 through 9 skipped for now)


10. Staff

Currently, Codename FSG is being worked on by the following people:


Elusivehawk (Project Leader, Coder, Fez-wearing Empoleon Fanatic)

Rainfur (Project Co-Leader, Coder)

ObsequiousNewt (Coder, Grammar Freak*)

Atrain99 (Coder)

S1D3W1ND3R (Steam only, Modeller, Voice Actor, Conlang Developer)

andy_t_roo (Coding Consultant)

gjjdac: (Steam only, Artist)

MingusUnderdog (Steam only, Sound Director, Conlang Developer, Designer)

Sothe Cuslinde (rsmrules05, Future Playtester)

Polarbraveheart (Steam only, Future Playtester)

Greenlinkwolf (Steam only, Future Playtester)



More information, including contact information and how to apply for a position can be found at the temporary wiki at GitHub. 

Note: For now, the wiki hasn't been fleshed out, so for now just contact the Project Leader at:

Email: be_the_trade@yahoo.com
Steam: Some Random Pokemon
Minecraft Forums: Elusivehawk

*Be forewarned.
Copyright © 2012 Jeff "Elusivehawk" Brusse and Erik "Rainfur" Melton, All Rights Reserved.
